Here's a minimal list of lore points necessary to establish certain important things.

- The aliens are an evil, genocidal empire. They are technologically advanced (mostly in biotechnology,
psychic powers and dimensional stuff), but they are culturally very backwards, with their society
dominated by dark religions and brutality. This is most likely the best path of least resistance
to explain why the "alien" levels look the way they do.

- The aliens are basically irredeemably evil bastards. From the highest Pain Lord to the lowest Serpentipede,
they are thoroughly soaked in the vileness of the empire. This is necessary to get rid of any moral objections to shooting them.

- The aliens come not from planet Horizon, but from an entire Horizon star system (where the planets are named
Horizon-1, Horizon-2, etc). This is a minor change that makes them feel more threatening and also allows for
extending the plot indefinitely (f.eg. "Oh, their planet got blown up last time? Well that was Horizon-4,
this time it's Horizon-5"). It also feels more logical for human astronomers to name a whole system "Horizon"
(because it's on the "horizon") rather than just a single planet.

- JoD's nature and status can be left ambiguous. What's important here is that a) it is important
enough to the aliens that losing it halts the invasion of Earth (ending Phase 2's story), and
b) it is never portrayed as a tyrant that rules the aliens through fear or mind control,
because that would diminish the aliens' evil and introduce objections to shooting them.

- AGM first found the aliens 10 years ago by digging up their ancient ruins (and then building
their bases over them for ease of access). They hid this fact from the world and have since
exploited the lower aliens for top-secret genetics and combat research (especially their super-soldier program).
This is necessary to explain the look of Phase 1 E2 maps, and the timeframe is just right for them to
a) develop their research b) popularize the teleport pads on Earth (see below) and
c) get too confident when unsealing the Pain Lords (also see below).

- AGM is a secondary antagonist who caused the alien invasion through their greed and stupidity.
Specifically, they ignored all warnings when unsealing the four Pain Lords (who called in the invasion)
because they got too confident at this point. They should stay as a secondary antagonist because having
them as major antagonists would be kind of a stretch, considering all of the stuff the player actually
fights is aliens and alien-controlled zombies.

- Teleport pads are alien technology which AGM sold as their own, and remotely hijacking them is how
the aliens invaded their colony and later Earth. This is necessary because a) aliens use the teleport pads too,
and b) it reinforces the "AGM caused the invasion through their greed" bit.

- AGM is hunting Karl because they don't want him to reveal the truth about their inhumane super-soldier
program to the world (or worse, reveal the fact that they covered up their first contact with aliens and
are to blame for the invasion). This is important to reinforce the whole "Karl is searching for freedom"
subplot that was carried over from the original story.


Below there's some extra lore points that may or may not have been mentioned anywhere, but are important for explaining plot holes.

- Despite teleport pads being AGM's greatest source of income, they cannot fully control them.
They brush this off as a technical flaw, but in reality they still do not fully understand how they work.
Most of their teleporters are strictly linked to each other. Aliens on the other hand can do whatever
they want with the teleporters, including make interstellar jumps (which AGM cannot do).
This patches up the plot hole of "why doesn't Karl just teleport wherever he needs to".

- The remote teleport hijacking is done with the large Technospiders' psychic powers. This explains
why E3 ends specifically after Karl kills a large Technospider. Karl knew the Technospider was doing this
because his modified alien DNA allowed him to sense its psychic energy.

- Warp-travel spaceships exist but they are expensive, unreliable, limited in size and easy to shoot down.
They are used by humans for interstellar travel only. This patches up the plot hole of "why doesn't Karl
just fly wherever he needs to with a spaceship".


Here's some extra lore points that were never mentioned and are not important but they're interesting and fit the other lore.

- The reason aliens occasionally use the AGM infinity symbol (and sometimes even the letters too)
is because they think it's some sort of holy symbol or ward, and this is their way of "stealing" it for their own uses.

- In Phase 2, AGM is not fighting the aliens because they're secretly considering joining them to be on the winning side.

- Tripods, small Technospiders and Combat Slugs were secretly created by the AGM for combat research.
The aliens liked the idea and started making more of their own using stolen technology.
